TOMATO-CHILLI RELISH 1 onion (finely chopped)
1 red pepper (finely chopped)
oil or butter
just less than 1 tsp chilli powder
2 cloves garlic (crushed or chopped)
1 400 g tin peeled and chopped tomatoes (or 2 cups chopped fresh tomatoes, peeled or unpeeled)
2 tbsp tomato paste
2 tbsp chutney, 2 tbsp balsamic vinegar,2 tbsp sugar
1 tsp salt , using a pan or pot on the fire or stove, fry the onion and pepper in a bit of oil or butter for 5 minutes. Add the chilli and garlic and fry for 1 more minute.
2. Now add the tomatoes, tomato paste, chutney, vinegar, sugar and salt, and mix well.
3. As soon as the mixture starts to boil, turn the heat down by either moving the pan to the edge of the fire or turning the stove to low so that it’s just simmering. 


For the onion and tomato gravy I fry onions and a bit of fresh garlic in a mix of olive oil and butter until slightly brown and for that extra bit of flavour I fry about a teaspoon of curry paste (Pakco) with the onions for about 30 seconds then I add chopped, peeled tomatoes and simmer all together to form a gravy. I add salt and pepper to taste, about 1t of sugar and a few dashes of Worcestershire sauce. You can also add some herbs and spices to taste and simmer for about another half hour on low heat. Forms the most delicious tomato and onion gravy.



Ingredients

    2 large onions, thinly sliced
    4 large tomatoes, cubed (or 2 tins of chopped tomatoes)
    2 cloves garlic, chopped
    oil for frying
    ½ cup tomato puree
    salt & pepper to taste
    1 tbsp vinegar
    1 tbsp sugar (or fruit chutney for extra flavour)
    ½ - 1 cup water
    2 tbsp green herbs, chopped Optional. I love adding parsley or basil though

Instructions

    Fry the onions in the oil until they are translucent, but not browned.
    Add the garlic and fry for another minute.
    Add the tomato, as well as any tomato juice you can preserve. Let the tomatoes fry in the pan until most of the juice has reduced.
    Add salt and pepper to taste, as well as the vinegar, sugar and tomato puree. Let the mixture come to a simmer.
    At this stage, the mixture will probably resemble a wet stir-fry. Add ½ a cup of water, or as much as you need to create a saucy consistency.
    Let the sauce cook on medium heat, stirring occasionally until most of the tomato pieces has broken down and the sauce has thickened (around 20 minutes). Add the chopped herbs 5 minutes before serving.
    Check the seasoning adding more salt or sugar if needed. Serve on pap of your choice as a side dish to some delicious braaied Boerewors.

